# Concise or comprehensive? Predictors of impact assessment choices for electric transmission line projects

This repository subdirectory correspond to the following paper published in Risk Analysis, [DOI and link to be filled in]. The tuolumne repository contains a variety of elements broadly related to the management and implementation of environmental impact assessment (EIA) under the U.S. National Environmental Policy Act. In this specific paper, we the consider the choice of develop EAs and EISs for different transmission line projects. This subdirectory contains all of the data and code materials necessary to replicate the project. For questions, please raise an issue and tag us here on Github.

## Paper Abstract
Environmental impact assessment (EIA) procedures required in the U.S. and many other countries are often highlighted as a major hindrance to timely and efficient deployment of critical infrastructure projects. Under the U.S. National Environmental Policy Act, a more extensive Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) review can take several more years and cost much more than a succinct Environmental Assessment (EA). This not only affects the project in question, but also likely informs how–or whether–additional projects are pursued. Thus, understanding key predictors of the EA versus EIS choice sheds light on supply-side considerations affecting infrastructure deficits. Using the case of NEPA reviews conducted for 244 transmission line projects between 2005 and 2018 by two US federal agencies in the western United States, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and Department of Energy (DOE), this addresses the following question: what project features most predict whether EA or an EIS is used to assess a transmission line project? Drawing upon NEPA assessment guidance and agency NEPA records, we use a regression classification tree to analyze how protocols and project attributes relate to assessment choice. The result is essentially a null finding: transmission line length is by far the most important predictor of whether a project receives an extensive EIS or a shorter EA, with little predictive value provided by other attributes. While absolute project size undoubtedly influences impacts, the lack of further differentiation in what predicts use of EISs versus EAs suggests assessment does not simply respond to project details but also shapes proposal and design choices beforehand.




## Getting Started

### Dependencies

* The project requires the R statistical programming language, version 4.1.2 (2021-11-01). The project was developed in OSX, and has not been tested on Windows.

### Installing

* The transmission_lines subdirectory is designed to run as a self-contained folder. Data inputs are either stored in the subdirectory or read directly from online locations.

### Subdirectory items

The subdirectory has 4 folders:
- transmission_lines/code: scripts for replicating the project
- transmission_lines/data_products: intermediate data objects and model objects generated by the project scripts (e.g., the subset of projects and documents used for the final sample and analysis, entity extractions, geotagged objects, etc.). The code is designed such that these objects can be generated anew or else take as-is if someone wants to skip ahead a few steps.
- input: THIS FOLDER IS EMPTY AND DESIGNED TO BE FILLED BY DOWNLOADING THE DATA FROM DATADRYAD. These inputs (https://datadryad.org/stash/dataset/doi:10.25338/B80K9R) are as follows:

1. feis_corpus_2013-2020.rds

This is an RDS compressed data.table object (https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/data.table/) in which each page is a row. The data.table has three columns, showing the File, text, and page #.

2. feis_document_record.csv

This CSV file itemizes documents in the e-nepa database (https://cdxnodengn.epa.gov/cdx-enepa-public/action/eis/search) by row, and provides meta-data for each document. Projects and documents are linked by EIS Number (an 8-digit identifier in which the first four digits show the year of publication). Every file (document) is saved with the EIS Number appended to the front of the file name, followed by an underscore, and then the original file name as downloaded from the EPA website.

3. feis_record_detail.csv

This CSV file itemizes projects in the e-nepa database (https://cdxnodengn.epa.gov/cdx-enepa-public/action/eis/search) by row, and provides meta-data for each project.

4. detected_preparer_pages_uncleaned.rds

This file contains plain text that is fed into the entity extraction model to identify preparers and consultants. The entity extraction R script in the project github repository shows how these pages were identified. The reason the plain text in the primary corpus is not used is that the primary corpus removes extra spaces, formatting tags, and other noise that is not relevant to the primary analysis but is potentially useful in entity extraction (e.g., line breaks, multiple spaces between names, etc.). Thus, this corpus is derived from the same original data, but the text is slightly different.


## Help

Please feel free to ping us if any links appear broken. Note that in some case, the call periodically throws an error for reasons that appear due to the idiosyncrasies of various online portals—this is often solved simply by waiting a minute and trying again.


## Authors

Contributors names and contact info


Tyler A. Scott, tascott@ucdavis.edu, @tylerscottphd  
Nicholas Marantz, nmarantz@ucdavis.edu
Nicola Ulibarri, ulibarri@uci.edu


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE.md file for details

