# Limited consideration of climate change by US federal agencies

This repository subdirectory correspond to the following paper published in the [], [DOI and link to be filled in]. The tuolumne repository contains a variety of elements broadly related to the management and implementation of environmental impact assessment (EIA) under the U.S. National Environmental Policy Act. In this specific paper, we the use of boilerplate text in EIA.

This subdirectory contains all of the data and code materials necessary to replicate the project. For questions, please raise an issue and tag us here on Github.

## Paper Abstract


Climate change mitigation and adaptation are high-level policy goals that must be translated into actionable programs and regulations by public agencies. To the extent that agencies and field offices exhibit inconsistent approaches to decision-making, government- and agency-wide climate policy priorities may founder. This paper analyzes the content of all Environmental Impact Assessments produced by U.S. federal agencies from 2013 to 2021 to model differences in how agencies address climate change in major planning and infrastructure decisions. Using structural topic modeling, we demonstrate that federal agencies’ consideration of climate change in EISs is largely focused on two specific areas--how changing hydrologic cycles and weather patterns will influence public works, and project construction emissions. Further, the extent to which agencies discuss either topic appears to be more strongly associated with political ideology than with the climate salience of projects.


## Getting Started

### Dependencies

* The project requires the R statistical programming language, version 4.1.1 (2021-08-10). The project has not been tested on Windows, but it was developed jointly in OSX (11.4) and Linux. Some of the R packages required might require loading underlying dependencies (e.g., if you use the rgdal package, the GDAL and PROJ libraries must be installed).

### Installing

* The climate_in_eis_project subdirectory is designed to run as a self-contained folder. Data inputs are either stored in the subdirectory or read directly from online locations. Specifically, the raw text input data are stored in the DataDryad repository, doi:10.25338/B80K9R: https://datadryad.org/stash/share/0lRK6azV9HS_3QjARgYW2VAtoOzwpNcw_a3RXDSWbVE . The project is designed to download the data from Dryad and then replicate within the subdirectory without further modification.

### Subdirectory items

The subdirectory has 6 folders:
- code: scripts for replicating the project
- data_products: intermediate data objects and model objects generated by the project scripts (e.g., the subset of projects and documents used for the final sample and analysis, entity extractions, geotagged objects, etc.). The code is designed such that these objects can be generated anew or else take as-is if someone wants to skip ahead a few steps.
- yearly_quanteda_tokens: originally an empty folder that is filled with tokenized corpuses during processing
- output: tables and figures
- scratch: miscellaneous scraps

- input: THIS FOLDER IS EMPTY AND DESIGNED TO BE FILLED BY DOWNLOADING THE DATA FROM DATADRYAD. These inputs [LINK HERE] are as follows:

1-9: eis_corpus_[YEAR].rds -- compressed data.table (https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/data.table/) objects with filtered plain text draft EISs. Each page is a row. The data.table has three columns, showing the File, text, and page #. Corpus file elements can be linked to project and document records via the file name column. The first 8 digits of each file name are the EIS.Number for that project, followed by the original file name as downloaded from the EPA website.

10. eis_document_record.csv

This CSV file itemizes documents in the e-nepa database (https://cdxnodengn.epa.gov/cdx-enepa-public/action/eis/search) by row, and provides meta-data for each document. Projects and documents are linked by EIS Number (an 8-digit identifier in which the first four digits show the year of publication). Every file (document) is saved with the EIS Number appended to the front of the file name, followed by an underscore, and then the original file name as downloaded from the EPA website.

11: eis_record_detail.csv

This CSV file itemizes projects in the e-nepa database (https://cdxnodengn.epa.gov/cdx-enepa-public/action/eis/search) by row, and provides meta-data for each project.

12. extra_docs.csv

This CSV file describes additional documents that were collected by hand where documentation was not found on the EPA website. These can also be linked to the project record CSV file by EIS Number.


## Help

Please feel free to ping us if any links appear broken. Note that in some case, the call periodically throws an error for reasons that appear due to the idiosyncrasies of various online portals—this is often solved simply by waiting a minute and trying again.


## Authors

Contributors names and contact info

Tyler A. Scott, tascott@ucdavis.edu, @tylerscottphd  
Nicola Ulibarri, ulibarri@uci.edu
Nicholas Marantz, nmarantz@ucdavis.edu

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE.md file for details

